# Side Quest: Git

So far all of the code you've written has been saved to your computer. This works okay for now, but what happens if your computer dies?

A totally reasonable answer to that question is to use some form of cloud storage. Google drive, Dropbox, you name it. All of these tools work for storing code in the cloud....

... but they're not the best tool for the job.

Enter: version control with Git.

## What's version control?

Imagine a scenario where multiple people are working on the same Microsoft Word document. Back before the days of Google Docs and the Cloud, where multiple people could work out of the same document very easily, this was a challenging task.

You might start with the following file:

```
Awesome Group Project.doc
```

But then one of your team members wants to propose an edit:

```
Awesome Group Project Spongebob's Edits.doc
```

At the same time that Spongebob is making edits, Patrick also wants to make some edits:

```
Awesome Group Project Patrick's Edits.doc
```

Now you have a mess. How would you merge these changes together? I bet whatever solution you come up with, it'll take a long time and it won't be fun.

Programmers encounter exactly the same challenges every day. Everyone on a team is working out of the same codebase, so everyone is "branching" off of the same shared document, and those changes have to be "merged" back together daily.

There has to be a better way!

## Programmers use Git for version control

It's time to learn how to solve this problem using the same industry-standard tools that professional programmers use every day.

Git is software that you use to simplify the process of doing version control with code. That said, Git is _not simple_. It takes a lot of practice to learn how to use it, so the sooner you start the better off you'll be in the future.

The best way to learn Git is to use it, and the right time to learn it is _right now_.

There are already many fantastic resources out there for how to learn Git. Use this one:

- [Free course from Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/version-control-with-git--ud123)

Once you complete the course, you will know the basics! Use git for everything and it will become second-nature in no time at all.
